"Marc Bolan London's First Glam-Rock Star"
"A Musical Icon Born in Stoke Newington"
Marc Bolan, born Mark Feld on September 30, 1947, was a legendary figure in the world of rock music. He emerged as the frontman of the band T. Rex, which became one of the pioneering acts of the glam rock era. Bolan's influence on music, his unique sense of style, and his captivating stage presence left an indelible mark on British rock history.

Marc Bolan's journey began in Stoke Newington, where he spent his formative years. He resided at 25a Stoke Newington Common until 1962 with his parents, Phyllis and Simeon. Phyllis worked on a fruit stall in Soho, and Simeon was a lorry driver. It was within this vibrant neighborhood that Bolan's passion for music started to blossom.

While attending Northwold School, Marc Bolan showcased his musical talent by playing guitar in a band called "Susie and the Hoops" alongside 12-year-old vocalist Helen Shapiro, who would later achieve fame with her hit song "Walking Back to Happiness" in early 1961. Bolan left school as soon as he could in 1962 and embarked on a journey that would define his future.

Marc Bolan's Childhood Home

After leaving school, Bolan briefly joined a modeling agency and appeared in a clothing catalogue for a menswear store as a "John Temple Boy." It was during this period that he adopted the stage name Toby Tyler, inspired by a film of the same name. However, Bolan would later settle on the name Marc Bolan, derived from his admiration for Bob Dylan, combining the first two letters of Bob and the last three letters of Dylan.

The true breakthrough for Marc Bolan came when he founded the band Tyrannosaurus Rex, which later evolved into T. Rex. Bolan's music, characterized by his distinctive voice and poetic lyrics, became synonymous with the glam rock movement. His avant-garde fashion sense and extravagant stage performances further solidified his status as a true icon of British rock music.

Marc Bolan Performing

Tragically, Marc Bolan's life was cut short on September 16, 1977, at the age of 29. He spent his final evening at Morton's bar and restaurant in Berkeley Square, accompanied by his girlfriend, Gloria Jones. In the early hours of the morning, as Jones was driving him home in her Mini 1275GT, the car lost control and collided with a sycamore tree near Gipsy Lane on Queens Ride, Barnes, in South West London. The impact of the crash took Bolan's life instantly, leaving the world in mourning for a true musical legend.

Marc Bolan's contributions to the world of music and his role as London's first glam-rock star are unparalleled. His pioneering spirit, creativity, and captivating performances continue to inspire musicians and fans to this day.

For more information about Marc Bolan and his extraordinary journey, visit the official website.

Additional Images:

Marc Bolan Poster
Marc Bolan Album Cover
Marc Bolan Live Performance